In the real world, it isn't uncommon for employees to work overtime depending on the project or job in order to meet the deadline set by management.
The issue is depending on the company you work for will constitute whether or not you are going to be paid for the overtime hours that are needed to complete the task at hand.
The issues always comes down to how many overtime hours that were worked within the pay period, and whether or not the people working the overtime hours are getting enough rest and having enough down time,
so that they are able to come into work the next day fully recharged and ready to handle the next set of tasks. The people who typically are affected by this will be hourly workers, because by law, 
any amount of hours worked after 40 hours per work week is entitled to 1.5 time pay up to 12 hours per day, and anything over 12 hours is double time. 

I am lucky enough to work for a company where Engineers are not required to work "green time". Since Engineers typically have yearly salaries, there is no obligation for the company to pay for overtime hours worked.
That being said, since there is no obligation for the companies to pay their employees extra compensation for overtime hours worked, there are issues that complicate the situation.
Let's hypothetically say that employee A worked for a company that didn't compensate for overtime hours; however, they expected employees to work additional hours each day, then there potentially could be a lawsuit on the way.
The reason why is because if the people feel overworked, mistakes can be made, and the backlash can potentially harm the face of the company, or even worse, dissolve the company. 

There also arises ethical issues pertaining to the employees who are working these extended long hours. If the employees understand that they are not going to be compensated for their hours worked, then 
there might not be any motivation for the employees to complete the task quickly. They understand the issue that it doesn't matter if they finish the job in 8 hours, or 12 hours. The fact that they "stayed" extra to finish the task at hand
gives upper management the perspective that this employee is a hard worker and is willing to do whatever it takes to complete the task at hand. Now let's compare to the company I currently work for. Any hours that are worked and
over the 40 hour work week,then we are allowed to charge overtime hours. This current company pays straight time for any overtime hours worked. Honestly, that's a godsend because I have talked so several other engineers who are working extended hours daily without compensation.

There also are major ethical issues when companies expect their engineers to work the extended hours without compensation because they technically are getting away with legalized slavery. They will use the legality of salary to counter the argument. 
Regardless, the issue at hand is once a company expects their engineers to work extended hours without compensation, then it will be 100 times more difficult once the deadlines start to pile up ontop of each other. Managers will start scheduling people to work 12 hour shifts instead of the normal 8 to 9 hours a normal work day would entail.
Managers should also help weigh in on the situation. The managers meet more often with the team than upper management. If the manager notices that an employee is being overworked, is starting to make mistakes, and is having a difficult time performing, then it should be the manager's responsibility to stand up and do what's right.
At the end of the day, if the employees are not happy about their work environment, and jobly duties, then there is a possibiilty that the employee will leave. This hurts the company because they lost a key member of their team. It already was difficult to meet deadlines with the team. Now that the team is getting smaller, it might not be 
as easy to get the job done due to the lack of employees to help balance the tasks assigned throughout the company.